II.
THE POOL OF TEARS
Curiouser and curiouser cried Alice.
She was so much surprised that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English.
Now I'm opening out like their largest telescope that ever was.
Good-bye, feet!
For when she looked down at her feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight.
They were getting so far off.
Oh, my poor little feet!
I wonder who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now, dears.
I'm sure I shan't be able to.
I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself about you.
You must manage the best you can.
But I must be kind to them, thought Alice, or perhaps they won't walk the way I want
to go.
Let me see.
I'll give them a new pair of boots every Christmas.
And she went on planning to herself how she should manage it.
They must go by carrier, she thought.
And how funny I'll seem, sending presents to one's own feet, and how odd the directions
will look.
Alice's right foot a squire, hearth rug near the fender with Alice's love.
Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking.
Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall.
In fact, she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took up the little golden
key and hurried off to the garden door.
Poor Alice.
It was as much as she could do lying down on one side to look through into the garden
with one eye, but to get through was more hopeless than ever.
She sat down and began to cry again.
You ought to be ashamed of yourself, said Alice.
A great girl like you, she might well say this.
To go on crying in this way, stop this moment, I tell you.
But she went on all the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool all
around her, about four inches deep, and reaching half down the hall.
After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance, and she hastily dried
her eyes to see what was coming.
It was the white rabbit returning, splendidly dressed with a pair of white kid gloves in
one hand, and a large fan in the other.
He came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to himself as he came.
Oh, the Duchess, the Duchess.
Oh, won't she be savage if I've kept her waiting.
Alice felt so desperate that she was ready to ask help of anyone.
So when the rabbit came near her she began in a low timid voice.
If you please, sir.
The rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid gloves and the fan, and scurried
away into the darkness, as hard as he could go.
Alice took up the fan and gloves, and as the hall was very hot, she kept fanning herself
all the time she went on talking.
Dear, dear, how queer everything is today, and yesterday things went on just as usual.
I wonder if I've been changed in the night.
Let me think, was I the same when I got up this morning?
I almost think I can remember feeling a little different.
But if I'm not the same, the next question is, who in the world am I?
Ah, that's the great puzzle.
And she began thinking over all the children that she knew that were of the same age as
herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of them.
I'm sure I'm not Ada, she said, for her hair goes in such long ringlets, and mine doesn't
go in ringlets at all.
And I'm sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things.
And she, oh, she knows such a very little, besides she, she, and I'm I.
And oh dear, how puzzling it all is.
I'll try if I know all the things I used to know.
Let me see, four times five is twelve, and four times six is thirteen, and four times
seven is, oh dear, I shall never get to twenty at that rate.
However, the multiplication table doesn't signify.
Let's try geography.
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and Rome, no, that's
all wrong, I'm certain.
I must have been changed for Mabel.
I'll try and say, how doth the little?
And she crossed her hands on her lap, as if she were saying lessons, and began repeated.
But her voice sounded hoarse and strange, and the words did not come the same as they
used to.
How doth the little crocodile improve his shining tail, and pour the waters of the Nile
on every golden scale?
How cheerfully he seems to grin, how neatly spread his claws, and welcome little fishes
in with gently smiling jaws.
I'm sure those are not the right words, said poor Alice, and her eyes filled with tears
as she went on.
I must be Mabel after all, and I shall have to go and live in that pokey little house,
and have next to no toys to play with, and oh, ever so many lessons to learn.
No, I've made up my mind about it.
If I'm Mabel, I'll stay down here.
It'll be no use their putting their heads down and saying, come up again dear.
I shall only look up and say, who am I then?
Tell me that first, and then, if I like being that person, I'll come up.
If not, I'll stay down here, till I'm somebody else.
But oh dear, cried Alice, with a sudden burst of tears, I do wish they would put their heads
down.
I am so very tired of being all alone here.
As she said this, she looked down at her hands, and was surprised to see that she had put
on one of the rabbit's little white kid gloves while she was talking.
How can I have done that?
She thought.
I must be growing small again.
She got up and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that, as nearly as
she could guess, she was now about two feet high, and was going on shrinking rapidly.
She soon found out that the cause of this was the fan that she was holding, and she
dropped it hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.
That was a narrow escape, said Alice, a good deal frightened at the sudden change, but
very glad to find herself still in existence.
And now for the garden, and she ran with all speed back to the little door, but alas, the
door was shut again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as before.
And things are worse than ever, thought the poor child, for I never was so small as this
before, never.
And I declare, it's too bad that it is.
As she said these words, her foot slipped, and in another moment, splash!
She was up to her chin in salt water.
Her first idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea.
And in that case, I can go back by railway, she said to herself.
Alice had been to the seaside once in her life, and it could come to the general conclusion
that wherever you go on the English coast, you find a number of bathing machines in the
sea, some children digging in the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses
and behind them a railway station.
However, she soon made out that she was in a pool of tears, which she had wept when she
was nine feet high.
I wish I hadn't cried so much, said Alice, as she swam about trying to find her way out.
I shall be punished for it now, I suppose, by being drowned in my own tears.
That will be a queer thing, to be sure.
However, everything is queer today.
Just then she heard something splash about in the pool a little way off, and she swam
nearer to make out what it was.
At first she thought it must be a walrus or a papotamus, but then she remembered how small
she was now, and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had slipped in like
herself.
Would it be of any use now, thought Alice, to speak to this mouse?
Everything is so out of the way down here that I should think very likely it can talk.
At any rate, there's no harm in trying.
So she began, Oh mouse, do you know the way out of this pool?
I am very tired of swimming about here, oh mouse.
Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse.
She had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having seen her brother's Latin
grammar, a mouse of a mouse, to a mouse a mouse, oh mouse.
The mouse looked at her rather inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its
little eyes, but it said nothing.
Perhaps it doesn't understand English, thought Alice, I dare say it's a French mouse, come
over with William the Conqueror.
With all her knowledge of history, Alice had no clear notion how long ago anything had
happened.
So she began again, Où est-ce, mon chien?
Which was the first sentence in her French lesson book.
The mouse gave a sudden leap out of the water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.
Oh, I beg your pardon, cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the poor animal's
feelings.
I quite forgot, you don't like cats.
Not like cats, cried the mouse in a shrill, passionate voice.
Would you like cats if you were me?
Well, perhaps not, said Alice in a soothing tone, don't be angry about it.
And yet, I wish I could show you our cat, Dinah, I think you'd take a fancy to cats
if you could only see her.
She's such a dear, quiet thing, Alice went on half to herself, as she swam lazily about
in the pool.
And she sits purring so nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face, and
she is such a nice, soft thing to nurse, and she's such a capital one for catching mice,
Oh, I beg your pardon, cried Alice again, for this time the mouse was bristling all
over, and she felt certain it must be really offended.
We won't talk about her any more if you'd rather not.
We indeed, cried the mouse, who was trembling down to the end of his tail, as if I would
talk on such a subject.
Our family always hated cats, nasty, low, vulgar things.
Don't let me hear the name again.
I won't indeed, said Alice, in a great hurry to change the subject of conversation.
And you, are you fond of, of dogs?
The mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly.
There is such a nice little dog near our house, I should like to show you.
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with, oh, such long, curly brown hair, and it'll
fetch things when you throw them, and it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts
of things.
I can't remember half of them, and it belongs to a farmer, you know.
And he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds.
He says it kills all the rats, and, oh dear, cried Alice in a sorrowful tone, I'm afraid
I'll be offended again, for the mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could
go and making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.
So she called softly after it, Mouse dear, do come back again, and I won't talk about
cats or dogs either, if you don't like them.
When the mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to her.
Its face was quite pale, with passion, Alice thought, and it said in a low trembling voice,
Let us get to the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll understand why
it is that I hate cats and dogs.
It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded with birds and animals that
had fallen into it.
There was a duck, and a dodo, a lorry, and an eaglet, and several other curious creatures.
Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the shore.